Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Hey, guys, hey, everyone.
Joshua Rudolf: Hello!
Joshua Rudolf: How's everybody?
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Gosh!
Joshua Rudolf: Thanks all for joining.
Joshua Rudolf: We'll get started here in a minute.
Joshua Rudolf: All right. I think we can get started. This is the L. 2 interrupt working group on today's call. We will be focused, I think, exclusively. We'll see how it goes on. Chain specific addresses and a few significant
Joshua Rudolf: updates and revamps around that chunk of work that I'm really excited by. And I think we'll hope to
Joshua Rudolf: yeah. Move this in a really positive direction. Change specific addresses. Aka. Interoperable addresses has been a topic that many of us have been discussing for quite a while now, and I think we're all excited to kind of take this to the to the next level and kind of get things finalized. So yeah, big. Shout out to everyone who has been working on this chunk of work for a long time and shout out to some of the wonderland team who is here today, who has jumped into this
Joshua Rudolf: chunk of complex, messy work, and has really been great in helping push it along and get it to what I think. And hope is a much better state today. And and you know, thanks to all of the other work that they were able to use as a foundation for this. So yeah.
Joshua Rudolf: I guess without further words, we can just jump right into the discussion and I'll hand it over to the Wonderland team to to give a bit of an overview on things and and anyone else, of course, feel free to jump in with questions. Raise your hand awesome.
teddy | wonderland: Hello, everyone. I'm going to share my my screen real quick.
teddy | wonderland: Can I get a thumbs up if you're seeing my screen? Okay.
TiTi (Wonderland): Yeah.
teddy | wonderland: Oh, okay, yes, sir.
teddy | wonderland: Hello, everyone. I'm Teddy from Wonderland. I've been leading the the efforts on what
teddy | wonderland: it was initially named cross-chain addresses, and
teddy | wonderland: I have sort of 2 documents to show you for this call. The 1st one is
teddy | wonderland: this one that was sort of a recommended reading.
teddy | wonderland: Which T. Is going to share in the chat if you haven't seen it already.
teddy | wonderland: But we are not going to
teddy | wonderland: to go over this one. It's just important that you know it exists, and that you can refer back to it if you want to onboard yourself. To this
teddy | wonderland: and the other one is sort of the my presentation of the subject.
teddy | wonderland: We have been working with Erc. 7, 8, 2, 8, which has
teddy | wonderland: was proposed sometime late last year.
teddy | wonderland: and initially we tried to sort of overhaul it. It has some history. It initially started as a text representation, and we tried to also
teddy | wonderland: define a binary one, then make it only binary. Then we went back to text. It's really a bunch of context that doesn't really matter
teddy | wonderland: other than the fact that we chose to split the standard. Basically the standard defined. This
teddy | wonderland: address at chain bound checksum.
teddy | wonderland: we format for chains and defined a few name ways to have better representation of that than raw addresses or raw chain ids.
teddy | wonderland: And we also have the need for and for a
teddy | wonderland: like. The idea is for this to serve the needs of 2 groups of people.
teddy | wonderland: those working with wallets and any other software that wants to display
teddy | wonderland: an address chain combo to a user
teddy | wonderland: on a fundamental level this, the scope for this is very simple. It's just okay. People know about addresses, and we have to also strap a chain Id on top of that. So people know.
teddy | wonderland: and where that address actually lives?
teddy | wonderland: But then you got the needs of the wallets that I already mentioned, and the smart contracts which is people working on the intents, cross message, passing resource logs, verticals
teddy | wonderland: where they need
teddy | wonderland: like a concise representation, because every every byte counts, and also they need some other guarantees, such as
teddy | wonderland: knowing that a given address can have 2 possible representations which the
teddy | wonderland: and for which a text format is not really optimal.
teddy | wonderland: So we decided to to serve the needs of 2 different groups of people. We're gonna going to define 2 different standards.
teddy | wonderland: The idea with Erc 7, 9, 3, 0 is to be the and
teddy | wonderland: to be the binary representation standard. I'm going to refresh this because I have some other examples of this.
teddy | wonderland: There we are. So we intend this one to be the binary one for
teddy | wonderland: for use within smart contracts.
teddy | wonderland: And it defines basically a payload with
teddy | wonderland: with a version, a chain type and chain reference, a chain type, chain reference and address fields
teddy | wonderland: which would be which would map to
teddy | wonderland: to address at a chain. Basically, version is an internal internal thing. So we can extend this standard in the future. Chain type vaguely matches to a kite
teddy | wonderland: namespace and change reference is the the guy preference. So what chain
teddy | wonderland: within that ecosystems within that ecosystem we're talking about.
teddy | wonderland: and address is the address specific to that chain which we all already know.
teddy | wonderland: so this standard is mostly concerned with the binary binary payload. But in order to bridge the gap between these standard and 7, 8, 2, 8, and keeping them both compatible
teddy | wonderland: is this also defines a very basic
teddy | wonderland: text representation, which is also which could also be useful, for when you don't actually have the means to. I don't know. Resolve any Uns name, or perform some other
teddy | wonderland: like more advanced logic, or you are just a developer trying to to troubleshoot stuff, discuss a text representation as well.
teddy | wonderland: M.
teddy | wonderland: And
teddy | wonderland: this text representation is actually what lets you plug into 7, 8, 2, 8, and keep the 2 standards convertible between each other.
teddy | wonderland: So they
teddy | wonderland: the target audience for 7, 8 to 8 is anything that interacts with humans and which could benefit from
teddy | wonderland: having more readable and memorable names, and it
teddy | wonderland: The biggest of it is that
teddy | wonderland: we define the like. Every name of this format, from 7, 9, 3 0 is
teddy | wonderland: like a compatible with this one.
teddy | wonderland: So you can still use a raw address if you want.
teddy | wonderland: but it also defines that you can put hierarchical names within the address or the chain field.
teddy | wonderland: and we actually strapped some semantics on top of this of these hierarchy. So you can have
teddy | wonderland: the idea is that the top level domain defines. How are you actually supposed to resolve them?
teddy | wonderland: To resolve that name into something that's
teddy | wonderland: not ambiguous, and that you can follow as a.
teddy | wonderland: and you can actually the reference back into a chain id or into an address.
teddy | wonderland: The idea with this is basically to create an introduction level app.
teddy | wonderland: So currently, we have a centralized registry of chain names like mapping from chain names to chain ids.
teddy | wonderland: And instead of maintaining that in the future. We would maintain
teddy | wonderland: a list like a list of protocols, to name chains, and to name addresses on those chains
teddy | wonderland: which would be hopefully a much shorter list.
teddy | wonderland: And the way you do you know which one to use is by this top level domain. So in this example.
teddy | wonderland: we have a Alice that is@coolchain.short.
teddy | wonderland: cool chain, dot shirt. It has the Tld short, which means we should use the the short list.
teddy | wonderland: which is what we currently using, for example, Erc 3, 7, 7 0
teddy | wonderland: and Alex dot, if has a dot, if dot top level domain, which is, which means it's
teddy | wonderland: it should be resolved via regular ens.
teddy | wonderland: It's worth noting that a
teddy | wonderland: while. This standard allows for the use of ens.
teddy | wonderland: It's not entirely coupled to it.
teddy | wonderland: So the idea is that you could have an some other tld which maps to using some other naming registry.
teddy | wonderland: If in the future a somebody
teddy | wonderland: wants to to use something other than Dns, and also in the in the case that's crucial for the case of naming chains.
teddy | wonderland: since
teddy | wonderland: it would be very cool to use a decentralized list of chains as proposed in Erc. 775. But that is currently not possible, because 775 is actually pretty far from reaching production.
teddy | wonderland: So in this other example that I have.
teddy | wonderland: this is this is more of a more made up because
teddy | wonderland: we can't use your c. 7, 75 yet.
teddy | wonderland: but the idea would be that you can say.
teddy | wonderland: use, roll up dot, l 2 dot e, as the chain as the chain part, and then
teddy | wonderland: the dot d would mean that you use Erc. 7, 75 to resolve that to an actual chain. 80.
teddy | wonderland: And this also showcases that you could use.
teddy | wonderland: M.
teddy | wonderland: You could still use addresses like raw addresses or raw chain ids like they would show like you would do with 7, 8, 3 0.
teddy | wonderland: So you can use these for things that don't that are not actually named.
teddy | wonderland: And you can represent things without going through a naming registry.
teddy | wonderland: These.
teddy | wonderland: This is a work in progress.
teddy | wonderland: We are there are a few
teddy | wonderland: a few things that we're trying to to define is especially the reverse. Resolutions of addresses on other chains is something that is
teddy | wonderland: currently being implemented by Ens, and we have some, and
teddy | wonderland: we have some some comments and some needs from from them, and it would also be, and
teddy | wonderland: very cool to see Erc 775 moving forward.
teddy | wonderland: So we can so we can decentralize the naming of chains as well, and these
teddy | wonderland: this centralized list of naming resolvers also called the name registry registry.
teddy | wonderland: Is something that we have not created yet. And for now we're
teddy | wonderland: debating the possibility of using the
teddy | wonderland: of using the same repo as as the chain list.
teddy | wonderland: And this is the part where I
teddy | wonderland: where I ask you for for stuff, and it's where we're having. We're wanting to to get these Crcs
teddy | wonderland: like finalized as soon as possible. Our goal would be for them to be in a final call status in the next.
teddy | wonderland: like 2 weeks from now.
teddy | wonderland: So we will really appreciate your feedback on on any of this.
teddy | wonderland: and in particular I would like to. I would like to ask you to use the eat magicians, forums.
teddy | wonderland: the threads we have links for
teddy | wonderland: probably 2 of them here, and they are also in the in the other document, and Tt. Probably share them in the chat already.
teddy | wonderland: and the idea is that for every sort of minor change that that we have to the Ercs.
teddy | wonderland: we use different prs, so, for example, like making
teddy | wonderland: 7, 8, 2, 8 be a text representation of 7, 9, 3 0 addresses was its own Pr. And any feedback that you have
teddy | wonderland: that you that you make on on those Prs will be.
teddy | wonderland: will be hard to follow on if they are not
teddy | wonderland: if they are not properly archived. So we would like to have all the feedback happen on the on the Forum, so we don't have to then track another
teddy | wonderland: like hugely huge list of different Prs that you have to read to get up to speed, and also
teddy | wonderland: like we will like for people to onboard themselves to this be without having
teddy | wonderland: to, I don't know. Go through a telegram group or something.
teddy | wonderland: So it's easier on everybody.
teddy | wonderland: So yeah, we're doing. We're doing interoperative analysis. And we we want your help with this. So I haven't gone through the
teddy | wonderland: the chat.
teddy | wonderland: Is there is there any questions that you guys have on this.
nikita: Yes, one question. Probably you've covered this, or maybe you've covered this. I've joined late. But why do we need the checksum in the
nikita: machine representation of addresses.
teddy | wonderland: No, we we don't. Actually, the the checksum is only for meant for displaying it on.
teddy | wonderland: for displaying the text representation to humans. The machine address does not have a check zone.
teddy | wonderland: It assumes that, however you transmit that information has the yeah has the capability of a
teddy | wonderland: knowing. If you got the same message in as out
teddy | wonderland: like, if you were to share it in a QR. Code, for example, the QR. Code has its own redundancy. If you were to send it over. Tcp, Tcp has
teddy | wonderland: everything that Tcp has, and it's the checksum is only relevant in context where it's possible that
teddy | wonderland: a user like had a typo or pass like has something different on their
teddy | wonderland: like. The the naming schemes can get very
teddy | wonderland: like can get sophisticated in the future.
teddy | wonderland: So
teddy | wonderland: you would want to. Perhaps you could have text representations which are different for the same actual address. And the way the checksum is defined is
teddy | wonderland: that it only hashes over the
teddy | wonderland: the chain and address part it does not concern itself with, for example, which naming resolver you're using.
teddy | wonderland: So you could have, like the same address be represented in text in 2 ways, and but the check zone will be the same, so you would be prompted to look into it
teddy | wonderland: like the ideas for it also to not make the the representations as opaque.
nikita: Okay, yeah, this makes sense.
nikita: though, there is one thing that I'm concerned about, like as a user, if it's if I'm typing a name as a user. I want something simple, like just alphanumerics. But if I have to type at the end some checksum which is like a hash or something like that. That would be very hard for me, especially even if, though I'm like.
teddy | wonderland: Kind of it.
nikita: Person.
teddy | wonderland: Now that they
teddy | wonderland: you will not type the check zone, not as a not as a layperson, and not as the nerdest of all developers.
teddy | wonderland: The ux that we envision is that you use like you type the name.
teddy | wonderland: and from that name they actually the wallet, at least with ens, which is what I researched so far.
teddy | wonderland: The the wallet can then figure out where the bye.
teddy | wonderland: on which chains there is an address available for that name.
teddy | wonderland: and then it can list them.
teddy | wonderland: So you pick from the select, and then you get the. You get the checks on the the wallet, computes the checks on for you.
teddy | wonderland: So if you are somewhere, that if you, for example, saw the address in a pamphlet.
teddy | wonderland: you you could type and and say, Yeah, that's that's the same checksum. I did. I did everything okay. And then, like, send a donation or whatever.
nikita: Okay, okay, I see. Thank you. So the checksum just to I, I just read it and verify in another place. Yeah.
teddy | wonderland: Yeah, I see some hands up. Would you like to go next.
Yuliya | Matter Labs: Yeah, just, I had a comment, specifically on this. I think the team did a really good job taking the initial proposal to now splitting into 2 machine readable, and then the human readable that
Yuliya | Matter Labs: leverages that this is very solid. Well thought out, I think we should push to get this, you know. Done as soon as possible. Support the 2 week. Timeline. Awesome, awesome job.
Yuliya | Matter Labs: that's all.
teddy | wonderland: Okay. Thank you very much.
frangio: My. My question is, if you can give a short update or comment on the
frangio: integration with chain agnostics, proposals. Some of this is being proposed as a keep. Is that right? Comment on that.
teddy | wonderland: Yes, I'm actually really glad that you asked.
teddy | wonderland: The idea is that these standards support
teddy | wonderland: support ethereum addresses, but they are not limited to that.
teddy | wonderland: They can support both chains within the ethereum ecosystem, which are not Evm. And I know have larger addresses, such as Aztec or Starnet Stalkernet.
teddy | wonderland: and they can also support things like are completely outside of the ethereum ecosystem.
teddy | wonderland: Mostly because there are some
teddy | wonderland: like we were inspired for that for other tooling which already supports it, and it's based off ethereum, such as ens with encip. 9
teddy | wonderland: So in order, we want this to be extensible to as many chains. l. 1 SL. 2 s. Alt. l. 1 s. As possible.
teddy | wonderland: So for that we need to
teddy | wonderland: have a like, we need to have a place
teddy | wonderland: where we agree on the text representations like on how to map the text representations of addresses to a binary payload, because that's
teddy | wonderland: for them. For some cases that's pretty easy, and for some other cases there are some alternatives in the case of ethereum. You could. I don't know. You could argue over
teddy | wonderland: if you want to use Aip 55 canon utilization of of capitalization, or
teddy | wonderland: or or similar things. And I don't know. Bitcoin has several other types.
teddy | wonderland: So the idea is that we defined a guy profile, which is Skype 3, 3, 5 0
teddy | wonderland: which is currently in draft. And it's receiving feedback. We didn't link from it from the presentation. But the other, the other document actually includes it.
teddy | wonderland: But yeah. So there there are Skype 3, 5 0, which defines
teddy | wonderland: a profile of what a change should define, as
teddy | wonderland: are their text representations, their binary representations, and how to map it between the 2,
teddy | wonderland: and then they type. Namespaces for every chain are completed later.
teddy | wonderland: So if you're not familiar with how Casa works, it's sort of a
teddy | wonderland: meta specification. So you can have
teddy | wonderland: a specification of How does, for example, type 10 is a specification of how an address looks, and then.
Filip @ status.network: I don't think we can hear you.
Joshua Rudolf: Teddy, you think we lost you, are you?
TiTi (Wonderland): Oh! Hey!
Joshua Rudolf: We'll see if Teddy comes back in a second.
TiTi (Wonderland): Okay.
Joshua Rudolf: While we wait any other feedback from. I see there's a few other L 2 teams, wallet teams.
teddy | wonderland: Sorry. Can you hear me?
Joshua Rudolf: Yep, you're back now.
teddy | wonderland: Oh, okay.
Joshua Rudolf: We lost you.
teddy | wonderland: Yeah. So some. How much did you lose that? It was the Kype part clear.
Joshua Rudolf: I think we lost about the past 30 to 60 seconds.
teddy | wonderland: Oh, okay.
teddy | wonderland: so yeah. The the ideas for that types are meta specifications of what should address like, what should change.
teddy | wonderland: specify to comply with in the case of kite, 350 is the mapping from
teddy | wonderland: a text to
teddy | wonderland: from text to binary, and from binary to text. In the case of 7, 9, 3, 0
teddy | wonderland: in the context of 7, 8, 3, 0. So
teddy | wonderland: what we did is we defined the guy 350, and then we defined the namespaces
teddy | wonderland: for both Ethereum and Solana
teddy | wonderland: the Solana. One was not for any particular reason other than supporting some other chain to
teddy | wonderland: sort of to test that we that we could. And so then I was particularly easy on how they define their
teddy | wonderland: their addresses under chain. Ids.
teddy | wonderland: But yeah, both of these things are as open prs.
teddy | wonderland: so you can. You can chime in on any any feedback that you that you have.
frangio: Cool thanks.
teddy | wonderland: Okay, any other questions you you I have, or you ask, or anything I miss from the chat.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Yeah, sure, I have a question. You see, you have this, like the the text format kind of looks like an email address which is nice in some ways, but also like raises the the question of like, How do you avoid collisions with? You know Tld is defined by Icann
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: and potential confusion. There.
teddy | wonderland: You mean?
teddy | wonderland: Yeah, confusion between addresses and email addresses.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Yeah.
teddy | wonderland: We like. We didn't think of that. To be honest and.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Okay.
teddy | wonderland: And we mentioned that they would appear in very different context. One thing off the top of my head, which could be fine, which we to define an Mx record or something akin to that, that
teddy | wonderland: where you can make the email address map to the actual blockchain address.
teddy | wonderland: So you can actually fix that while making them the same. But that's that's just speculation on my part.
teddy | wonderland: No, we didn't envision they could.
teddy | wonderland: They could collide, and the idea is to not an actual mitigation to to that which is not really
teddy | wonderland: and and yeah, an actual mitigation to to that, to that is the fact that the
teddy | wonderland: we would have a centralized list of these name resolvers, and the idea would be to not
teddy | wonderland: use Tlds, that I can also use this
teddy | wonderland: so that can get it out out of the way. And in the case of naming registries.
teddy | wonderland: so far it has been in their best interest to not collide with Icann, so I don't know I can, does not provide that if
teddy | wonderland: address and the dot if Tld for Ens was chosen because
teddy | wonderland: there isn't 1 in in Igan.
teddy | wonderland: So I don't think that's gonna because of the Tlds. I don't think it's going to be a big issue.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Yeah. One thing I will say, like the idea that they're not going to appear in the same context. I don't think is probably true. I I think people do already, you know, want to send, you know. Send Crypto to an email address, and if you have that, the case where you have a, you know, a 2 line on a transaction that can take either an email address or one of these names. It could exactly. It could totally be the exact same context.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: the as far as not planning. If I can like. Yeah, Dot, if probably at this point I can, would not probably
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: endorse a Tld at this point, because they are probably I'm guessing aware of the fact that it's major. It's used by so many people in this space.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: I guess. Basically, I would be concerned with other kinds of Tlds that might appear, and that future collisions could occur.
teddy | wonderland: Yes, we will have to sort of the Ef. Would have to approve of that collision by adding it into the name registry registry. Basically.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Well, I'm just gonna say, it's like, you know, some the members of the community of this community decide to use
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: some need. New tld, you know, dot chain, and then I can later approves a dot chain tld owned by some corporation.
Joshua Rudolf: I could. I was just gonna jump in really quick, Teddy, I think the the email collision topic, I think, is a good one, and is something that we touched on a long time ago. Actually, when when we were 1st sort of debating usage of the at sign versus colon versus other sort of syntax and so I think it. I do think it's something that
Joshua Rudolf: is still a concern, I think. And, Teddy correct me if I'm I guess, misunderstanding, or if you disagree. But I think the way I guess the way that I think that we're thinking about this is that the way that we've set things up now
Joshua Rudolf: allows us to have some flexibility. We don't. We don't need to answer this question in the immediate term around the specific syntax, and maybe we do in the very near future decide to move away from at to avoid this email collision issue.
Joshua Rudolf: But,
Joshua Rudolf: I don't know, not not to say that we shouldn't discuss it right now, but I'm wondering if it's something that we should maybe have a separate sort of venue to discuss more specifics around syntax and.
teddy | wonderland: This is the sort of thing that would be a good fit for the for the forum because there's also the the argument that using a colon
teddy | wonderland: would include would mean having ambiguities with Caif 10, which would be more frequent.
teddy | wonderland: But yeah, the Forum is probably the best place to go in depth into that.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, makes sense to me.
Joshua Rudolf: There's a couple of questions from Frangio in the chat as well.
frangio: Yeah, just the one about the timeline, I think, is the only really important one. This thing about email collisions. Do we need to decide this in the next 2 weeks. Essentially.
teddy | wonderland: Yes, because the Erc, like the the Erc, still do not define the and.
teddy | wonderland: like the naming registries we're going to use, and they do not define the
teddy | wonderland: how future chains are going to be serious, which that allows us to move the standard faster. But it does define the grammar of what names look like.
teddy | wonderland: So this is one of the items that should be resolved within 2 weeks. But I am, and
teddy | wonderland: like I have the time to discuss it, and I'm confident we can. We can figure it out.
TiTi (Wonderland): Okay. Anyone else has any questions that they would like us to address right now, else we can move this conversation to the Forum, and we will be addressing all the feedback during these 2 weeks, as Teddy mentioned.
TiTi (Wonderland): So let us know. I hope this was very helpful for you to get contacts on both Sanders.
TiTi (Wonderland): and we really appreciate you taking the time and providing feedback on it.
Joshua Rudolf: Thank you so much, Teddy and Tt. For walking us through and answering a bunch of questions. This is great. Any other questions feedback right now. Otherwise we can. Yeah move it to the Forum like like Tt mentioned.
Joshua Rudolf: cool? If not, then we can end the call there.
Joshua Rudolf: Thank you so much. Everybody.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Thank you.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Bye, bye.
teddy | wonderland: See you in the Forum.